There's a saying that what gets measured gets control.
This applies to system health statistics in
your computing environment that let you spot
problems and opportunities before they become an issue.
For example, say a celebrity posts a photo of your product on their social media page,
there would be a rapid increase in visits to your website.
By monitoring performance statistics,
you could be ahead of that wave.
A sudden spike in failed login attempts is
a possible indication of an attack in progress.
If an IP address is attempting connections to
hundreds of ports on your public facing IPs,
you are likely being scanned for vulnerabilities.
By establishing baselines and understanding your environment,
eventually, it all comes together almost as a story.
You can tell when something is wrong based on alerts long before the systems crash,
or an adversary compromises the system.
By collecting and processing events and system logs correctly,
you can adequately monitor
your environment to successfully mitigate these issues and more.